CRUZ STOPPED TALKING AND THE
SENATE VOTED UNANIMOUSLY TO MOVE
FORWARD WITH A BILL TO FUND THE
GOVERNMENT.
GOOD EVENING, I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
ALSO AHEAD,HE F TIRST DETAILED
LOOK AT WHAT PREMIUMS WILL COST
UNDER THE FEDERAL HEAL
>> Ifill: AND WE CLOSE WITH ONE
POET LOOKING BACK AT THE LIFE OF
ANOTHER.
KWAME DAWES REMEMBERS HIS UNCLE,
A RENOWNED WRITER AND DIPLOMAT
FROM GHANA, AMONG THOSE KILLED
KOFI BELONG TO THAT GENERATION
OF AFRICAN POETS AND WRITERS
THAT EMERGED IN THE LATE '50s
AND EARLY '60s WHO SAW A A VISTA
OF INDEPENDENCE AND A NEW VISION
OF AFRICA.
>> Woodruff: THOSE ARE JUST
SOME OF THE STORIES WE'RE
COVERING ON TONIGHT'S "PBS
NEWSHOUR."
>> Ifill: OUR LEAD STORY
TONIGHT: A BILL TO FUND
GOVERNMENT OPERATIONS BEYOND THE
END OF THE MONTH CLEARED ITS
FIRST PROCEDURAL HURDLE TODAY.
IT WAS A RARE UNANIMOUS VOTE.
"NEWSHOUR" CONGRESSIONAL
CORRESPONDENT KWAME HOLMAN
BEGINS OUR COVERAGE.
>> ON THIS VOTE, THE YAYS ARE
100, THE NAYS ARE ZERO, THREE-
FIFTHS OF THE SENATORS DULY
CHOSEN AND SWORN HAVING VOTED IN
THE AFFIRMATIVE, THE MOTION IS
AGREED TO.
>> Reporter: THAT OUTCOME--
WITHOUT A SINGLE DISSENTING
VOTE-- CAME AFTER TEXAS
REPUBLICAN TED CRUZ AND OTHERS
STRONGLY DISSENTED, FOR MORE
THAN 21 HOURS.
THEY WARNED FELLOW REPUBLICANS
TO INSIST THAT ANY BILL THAT
FUNDS THE GOVERNMENT,
ALSO DE-FUNDS THE PRESIDENT'S
HEALTH CARE LAW.
>> I DON'T THINK YOU'RE ENTITLED
TO VOTE WITH HARRY REID AND THE
DEMOCRATS, GIVE HARRY REID AND
THE DEMOCRATS THE ABILITY TO
FUND OBAMACARE AND THEN GO TO
YOUR CONSTITUENTS AND SAY, "I
AGREE WITH DEFUNDING OBAMACARE."
YOU DON'T GET IT BOTH WAYS.
>> Reporter: THE TALKATHON SPLIT
REPUBLICAN RANKS.
ON THE ONE HAND, FLORIDA'S MARCO
RUBIO DEFENDED CRUZ'S TACTICS.
>> IF NOTHING ELSE, I THINK
PEOPLE ACROSS THIS COUNTRY  KNOW
MORE ABOUT THIS LAW AND ITS
IMPACTS THAN THEY DID A DAY AGO.
IF NOTHING ELSE, THE PEOPLE IN
THIS COUNTRY ARE NOW
INCREASINGLY AWARE OF ALL THE
IMPLICATIONS OF THIS LAW ON
THEIR LIVES, ON THEIR HOPES AND
ON THEIR FAMILIES.
>> Reporter: A NUMBER OF OTHER
REPUBLICANS TOOK ISSUE WITH
CRUZ-- IN PARTICULAR, HIS
COMPARING THE CURRENT FIGHT TO
EVENTS PRECEDING WORLD WAR TWO.
>> IF YOU GO TO THE 1940s, NAZI
GERMANY.
LOOK, WE SAW IN BRITAIN, NEVILLE
CHAMBERLAIN, WHO TOLD THE
BRITISH PEOPLE, ACCEPT THE
NAZIS.
YES, THEY'LL DOMINATE THE
CONTINENT OF EUROPE, BUT THAT
NOT OUR PROBLEM.
AND IN AMERICA THERE WERE VOICES
THAT LISTENED TO THAT.
I SUSPECT THOSE SAME PUNDITS WHO
SAY IT CAN'T BE DONE, IF IT
WOULD HAVE BEEN IN THE 1940s, WE
WOULD HAVE BEEN LISTENING TO
THEM.
>> Reporter: THAT DREW A
FORCEFUL REBUKE TODAY FROM
ARIZONA'S JOHN McCAIN.
>> I RESOUNDINGLY REJECT THAT
ALLEGATION.
THAT ALLEGATION IN MY VIEW DOES
A GREAT DISSERVICE, A GREAT
DISSERVICE FOR THOSE BRAVE
AMERICANS WHO STOOD UP AND SAID
WHAT'S HAPPENING IN EUROPE
CANNOT STAND.
>> Reporter: ON THE DEMOCRATIC
SIDE, MAJORITY LEADER  HARRY
REID MINCED NO WORDS IN
DISMISSING CRUZ'S EFFORT.
>> IT HAS BEEN A BIG WASTE OF
TIME.
THE GOVERNMENT IS SET TO SHUT
DOWN IN A MATTER OF HOURS, JUST
A FEW DAYS, GOVERNMENT WILL
CLOSE.
AND IT'S A SHAME WE'RE STANDING
HERE HAVING WASTED PERHAPS TWO
DAYS-- MOST OF YESTERDAY AND A
GOOD PART OF TODAY-- WHEN WE
COULD PASS WHAT WE NEED TO PASS
VERY QUICKLY AND SEND IT BACK TO
THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
THEY'RE WAITING FOR US TO ACT.
>> Reporter: IN THE END, AFTER
THE MARATHON FLOOR SPEECHES,
EVEN CRUZ VOTED IN FAVOR OF
TAKING UP THE GOVERNMENT FUNDING
BILL.
HE SAID THE REAL TEST WILL BE
ANOTHER PROCEDURAL VOTE,
EXPECTED TOMORROW.
MAJORITY DEMOCRATS SAY IF THEY
GET OVER THAT HURDLE, THEY HAVE
THE VOTES TO STRIP THE ANTI-
OBAMACARE LANGUAGE FROM THE
BILL, AND PASS IT BY THE
WEEKEND.
MEANWHILE, THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION TODAY RELEASED
ITS FIRST ESTIMATES OF HOW MUCH
PREMIUMS WILL COST THE UNINSURED
UNDER OBAMACARE.
AND, THE HOUSE RETURNED TO WORK,
AS IT WAITS FOR THE SENATE TO
FINISH THE SPENDING BILL AND THE
CLOCK COUNTS DOWN TO THE
DEADLINE FOR A GOVERNMENT
SHUTDOWN, NEXT TUESDAY.
>> Ifill: WE'LL TALK WITH TWO
SENATORS ABOUT THE DAY'S
DEVELOPMENTS AND WHAT HAPPENS
NEXT, AFTER THE OTHER NEWS OF
THE U.S. TREASURY WARNED TODAY
THE  GOVERNMENT WILL RUN OUT OF
BORROWING AUTHORITY BY OCTOBER
17.
THAT MEANS A NATIONAL DEFAULT,
UNLESS CONGRESS ACTS TO RAISE
THE DEBT CEILING-- NOW SET AT
$16.7 TRILLION.
HOUSE REPUBLICANS WILL WORK ON A
BILL THIS WEEK, AND THEY SAY
THEY'LL ATTACH A ONE-YEAR DELAY
IN IMPLEMENTING OBAMACARE.
THE F.B.I. HAS CONCLUDED THE
GUNMAN IN LAST WEEK'S NAVY YARD
SHOOTINGS WAS DRIVEN BY PARANOID
AARON ALEXIS KILLED A DOZEN
PEOPLE ON SEPTEMBER 16, BEFORE
HE WAS SHOT DEAD BY POLICE.
TODAY, THE F.B.I. RELEASED VIDEO
SHOWING ALEXIS CARRYING A
SHOTGUN IN THE MOMENTS BEFORE HE
OPENED FIRE.
INVESTIGATORS SAID THERE'S NO
SIGN HE HAD ANY SPECIFIC TARGETS
IN MIND.
>> WE BELIEVE THAT HIS VICTIMS
WERE RANDOM AS HE WALKED THROUGH
THE HALLWAYS AND STAIRWELLS OF
BUILDING 197.
AS REFERENCED, WE HAVE FOUND
RELEVANT COMMUNICATIONS ON HIS
ELECTRONIC MEDIA WHICH
REFERENCES HIS SOLUTIONAL BELIEF
THAT HE WAS BEING CONTROLLED OR
INFLUENCED BY EXTREMELY LOW
FREQUENCY ELECTROMAGNETIC WAVES
FOR THE PAST THREE MONTHS.
>> Ifill: THE INVESTIGATION IS
CONTINUING.
MEANWHILE, THE PENTAGON HAS
LAUNCHED THREE SEPARATE REVIEWS
INTO THE RAMPAGE.
THEY'LL FOCUS MAINLY ON THE NAVY
YARD'S SECURITY AND EMPLOYEE
CLEARCE PANROCESS.
WE'LL HAVE MORE ON THE MENTAL
HEALTH ANGLE, LATER IN THE
PROGRAM.
>> Ifill: GOVERNMENT TROOPS IN
KENYA SPENT THIS DAY COMBING
NAIROBI'S WESTGATE MALL, MAKING
SURE THE SITE IS FINALLY SECURE
AFTER A FOUR-DAY BATTLE.
THE CONFIRMED DEATH TOLL STOOD
AT 72, BUT THE SOMALI MILITANT
GROUP BEHIND THE ASSAULT AL-
SHABAAB CLAIMED NEARLY TWICE
THAT MANY HAD DIED.
WE HAVE A REPORT FROM LINDSEY
HILSUM OF "INDEPENDENT
TELEVISION NEWS."
>> Reporter: THE BOMB SQUAD AND
THEIR SNIFFER DOGS PREPARED TO
GO INTO WEST GATE.
THE SIEGE IS OVER BUT THERE MAY
BE BOOBY TRAPS OR UNEXPLODED
GRENADES LYING IN THE RUBBLE.
THIS AMATEUR FOOTAGE SHOWS THE
COLLAPSED FOUR STORY CAR PARK.
IT'S NOT YET CLEAR WHY IT CAVED
IN YESTERDAY BUT IT SEEMS THAT
WAS HOW THE SIEGE ENDED, WITH
THE TERRORISTS BURIED
UNDERNEATH.
THE RED CROSS SAYS 71 PEOPLE ARE
STI MISLLSING BUT THE GOVERNMENT
MAINTAINS THERE WERE VERY FEW,
IF ANY, CIVILIANS LEFT INSIDE.
>> WE ARE CONVINCED THAT THERE
WILL BE INSIGNIFICANT, IF THERE
ARE ANY, STILL BEING HOLED UP
THERE, EXCEPT FOR THE
TERRORISTS.
>> Reporter: DRAMATIC NEWSHOWINA
PLAINCLOTHES POLICE OFFICER
TRYING TO RESCUE A WOMAN AND HER
TWO CHILDREN AS THE ATTACK
UNFOLDED ON SATURDAY.
>> MADAM!
MAMI!
>> Reporter: SHE PLAYS DEAD.
HE REACHES FOR THEM BUT SHE
DOESN'T TRUST HIM.
HE WORMS HIS WAY AROUND THE
BARRIER AND CALLS OUT TO HER.
EVENTUALLY HE CONVINCES HER HE'S
NOT A TERRISTRO.
HE'S ABLE TO PICK UP HER LITTLE
GIRL AND AFTER A WHILE ALL FOUR
RUN FOR SAFETY.
TODAY, WEST GATE WAS STILL
SMOLDERING AND SOME WERE
BEGINNING TO ASK HOW COULD THIS
HAVE HAPPENED?
>> THERE IS A SHOCKING, FAIRLY
IN TERMS OF INTELLIGENCE BECAUSE
WE KNEW FOR A LONG TIME THAT
THIS WAS COMING.
AL-SHABAB AND OTHER TERRORIST
GROUPS HAVE THREATENED TO ATTACK
KENYANS.
>> WE MOVE IN ONE MINUTE.
>> Reporter: THIS AFTERNOON,
VOLUNTEERS WERE PREPARING FOR
THEIR NEXT DISTRESSING TASK,
PULLING BODIES FROM THE RUBBLE.
WHATEVER THE GOVERNMENTS SAYS,
OTHERS FEAR THERE ARE MORE DEAD,
MAYBE MANY INSIDE.
>> Ifill: THE DEATH TOLL FROM AN
EARTHQUAKE IN SOUTHWESTERN
PAKISTAN CLIMBED SHARPLY TODAY,
TO AT LEAST 285.
THE POWERFUL QUAKE ROCKED A
REMOTE AREA IN BALUCHISTAN
PROVINCE YESTERDAY, WITH A
REGISTERED  MAGNITUDE OF
7.7.
ITS FORCE LEVELED MUD-BRICK
HOMES, AND INJURED NEARLY 370
PEOPLE.
THE FORCE OF THE QUAKE EVEN
PUSHED UP A NEW ISLAND IN THE
ARABIAN SEA, OFF INDIA'S
SOUTHERN COAST.
IN WESTERN INDIA, LATE-SEASON
MONSOON RAINS HAVE TOUCHED OFF
EXTREME FLOODING, FORCING
THOUSANDS TO FLEE TO HIGHER
GROUND.
AT LEAST THREE PEOPLE HAVE DIED.
ENTIRE CITIES IN GUJARAT STATE
HAVE BEEN INUNDATED BY SURGING
RIVERS, WITH ROADS AND RAILWAY
LINES PARALYZED.
LARGE SWATHS OF FARMLAND ARE
ALSO UNDER WATER.
THE UNITED STATES TODAY SIGNED
AN INTERNATIONAL TREATY THAT
REGULATES GLOBAL WEAPONS
TRADING.
90 OTHER NATIONS HAVE ALREADY
DONE SO.
THE U.S. SIGNING CAME AT THE
UNITED NATIONS.
SECRETARY OF STATE JOHN KERRY
INSISTED IT WILL HAVE NO EFFECT
ON LAWFUL GUN SALES IN THIS
COUNTRY.
>> THIS TREATY WILL NOT DIMINISH
ANYONE'S FREEDOM.
MAKE NO MISTAKE: WE WOULD NEVER
THINK ABOUT SUPPORTING A TREATY
THIS IS INCONSISTENT WITH THE
RIGHTS OF AMERICANS, THE RIGHTS
OF AMERICAN CITIZENS TO BE ABLE
TO EXERCISE THEIR GUARANTEED
RIGHTS UNDER OUR CONSTITUTION.
>> Ifill: THE TREATY IS EXPECTED
TO MEET STRONG RESISTANCE IN THE
U.S. SENATE, WHERE IT NEEDS A
TWO-THIRDS VOTE FOR
50 NATIONS MUST VOTE TO RATIFY
BEFORE ITS PROVISIONS CAN GO
INTO EECT.FF
SO FAR, SIX HAVE TAKEN THAT
STEP.
THERE ARE NEW SIGNS OF DEEPENING
DIVISIONS AMONG SYRIAN REBELS.
13 GROUPS, INCLUDING A POWERFUL
FACTION LINKED TO
AL-QAEDA, REJECTED THE WESTERN-
BACKED SYRIAN NATIONAL COALITION
TODAY.
INSTEAD, IN A STATEMENT, THEY
CALLED FOR ALL REBEL FIGHTERS TO
UNITE UNDER A CLEAR ISLAMIC
FRAMEWORK BASED ON SHARIAH LAW.
MEANWHILE, U.N. INSPECTORSTURNE.
THEY'LL CONTINUE THEIR
INVESTIGATION INTO A SERIES OF
ALLEGED CHEMICAL WEAPONS ATTACKS
EARLIER THIS YEAR.
THE COST OF MAILING A LETTER
COULD GO UP SOON BY THREE CENTS.
IN A BID TO REDUCE A HUGE
DEFICIT, THE U.S. POSTAL SERVICE
ASKED TODAY TO RAISE THE PRICE
OF A FIRST-CLASS STAMP TO 49
CENTS.
IT EXPECTS TO LOSE $6 BILLION
THIS YEAR.
THE RATE INCREASE IS SUBJECT TO
APPROVAL FROM THE INDEPENDENT
POSTAL REGULATORY COMMISSION.
IN ECONOMIC NEWS, GOVERNOR JERRY
BROWN SIGNED A BILL, RAISING
CALIFORNIA'S MINIMUM WAGE TO
$10 AN HOUR-- THE HIGHEST OF ANY
STATE.
AND ON WALL STREET, THE DOW
JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE LOST 61
POINTS TO CLOSE AT 15,273.
THE NASDAQ FELL SEVEN POINTS TO
CLOSE AT 3,761.
THE AMERICA'S CUP YACHT RACE
ENDED TODAY WITH AN
UNPRECEDENTED COMEBACK BY THE
U.S. TEAM.
ORACLE TEAM USA BEAT EMIRATES
TEAM NEW ZEALAND IN THE WINNER-
TAKE-ALL 19th RACE OFF
SAN FRANCISCO.
THE AMERICANS HAD TO WIN EIGHT
STRAIGHT TIMES IN THE LAST WEEK,
AFTER NEW ZEALAND TOOK A
COMMANDING LEAD.
THE AMERICA'S CUP IS THE OLDEST
TROPHY IN INTERNATIONAL SPORTS.
>> Ifill: STILL TO COME ON THE
"NEWSHOUR": SENATORS JOHNSON AND
WARNER ON LATEST CAPITOL HILL
BUDGET BATTLE; WHAT PREMIUMS
WILL COST UNDER HEALTHCARE
REFORM; NEW DETAILS ON THE NAVY
YARD SHOOTING; THE C.E.O. OF
COMCAST ON THE FUTURE OF
T.V.; THE CHARM OFFENSIVE BY
IRAN'S PRESIDENT.
AND REMEMBERING A RENOWNED POET
KILLED IN THE KENYA ATTACK.
>> Woodruff: WE RETURN TO THE
FIGHT HERE IN WASHINGTON OVER
FUNDING THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT,
NOW THAT AN EFFORT TO STOP THE
MEASURE AS LONG AS IT INCLUDES
MONEY FOR PRESIDENT OBAMA'S
HEALTH CARE REFORM LAW, HAS
FAILED.
A SHORT TIME AGO, I SPOKE WITH
TWO SENATORS WHO HAVE BEEN
WORKING WITH THEIR PARTIES AND
THE WHITE HOUSE IN HOPES OF A
BROADER FISCAL SOLUTION.
JOINING ME IN THE STUDIO IS
REPUBLICAN RON JOHNSON FROM
WISCONSIN AND ON CAPITOL HILL,
DEMOCRAT MARK WARNER OF
VIRGINIA.
GENTLEMEN, THANK YOU BOTH FOR
BEING WITH US.
BEFORE I ASK YOU, SENATOR
JOHNSON, ABOUT THE SPENDING
BILL, LET ME ASK YOU ABOUT WHAT
SENATOR CRUZ DID.
21 HOURS ON THE FLOOR.
YOU DID NOT SPEAK OUT IN SUPPORT
OF HIM.
DO YOU THINK WHAT HE'S DONE IS
HELPFUL TO THE REPUBLICAN GOAL
OF DEFUNDING OBAMACARE, THE
PRESIDENT'S HEALTH CARE REFORM?
>> WELL, JUDY, I APPRECIATE ANY
EFFORT THAT HIGHLIGHTS, REALLY,
THE HARM THAT OBAMA IS GOING TO
DO TO OUR HEALTH CARE SYSTEM,
WHAT-TO-OUR ECONOMY, TO AVERAGE
AMERICANS.
SO, LISTEN, WHEN SOMEBODY'S
SITTING ON THE FLOOR FOR 21 OR
22 HOURS, YOU'RE CERTAINLY
DRAWING ATTENTION TO THE LAW
THAT REPUBLICANS ARE TOTALLY
UNITED IN WANTING TO REPEAL IT,
DEFUND IT, TO DO WHATEVER WE CAN
TO LIMIT THE DAMAGE TO THE
AMERICAN ECONOMY CAUSED BY THE
HEALTH CARE LAW.
>> Woodruff: DID HE HELP THAT
CAUSE?
>> I THINK HE PROBABLY DID.
WE'VE CERTAINLY -- THIS WHOLE
DEFUND EFFORT HAS CERTAINLY
RAISED THE ISSUE OF OBAMACARE,
TOGETHER WITH THE FACT THAT
UNIONS NOW HAVE GOT A GREAT DEAL
OF CONCERN ABOUT IT.
THEY'RE ASKING FOR THE LAW TO BE
CHANGED.
SOME OF THEM ARE CLOSE TO
CALLING FOR ITS REPEAL.
WHAT'S BASICALLY HAPPENING HERE
IS PRESIDENT OBAMA DELAYED ITS
IMPLEMENTATION.
NOW THIS LAW IS BEING
IMPLEMENTED, AMERICANS ARE
STARTING TO SEE THE DAMAGE IT
WILL CAUSE.
>> Woodruff: FROM YOUR
PERSPECTIVE, SENATOR WARNER,
WHAT DO YOU THINK?
>> I THINK WE SAW A PIECE OF
POLITICAL THEATER THAT IS
PROBABLY GOING TO MEAN YOU'RE
GOING TO END UP WITH A SHUTDOWN
OF THE GOVERNMENT FOR A COUPLE
DAYS AS WE SEND THESE BILLS BACK
AND FORTH AND A LOT OF FOLKS
AROUND VIRGINIA ARE GOING TO
WONDER WHY DID WE HAVE TO GO
THROUGH THIS EXERCISE.
IF SOMEBODY WANTS TO SIT DOWN
AND HAVE A LEGITIMATE
CONVERSATION ABOUT WHAT'S GOOD
AND WHAT'S BAD IN THE AFFORDABLE
HEALTH CARE ACT, THAT'S A VALID
DEBATE.
LET'S HOLD HOSTAGE THE WHOLE
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT BECAUSE THE
PRESIDENT WAS REELECTED, THE LAW
WAS AFFIRMED, THE LAW WAS PASSED
SEEMS TO ME TO BE THE KIND OF,
AGAIN, POLITICAL ACTION THAT GOT
THE VAST MAJORITY OF AMERICANS
TURNED OFF ON EVERYTHING THAT
GOES ON IN THIS TOWN.
>> Woodruff: SENATOR JOHNSON,
IS A GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWN NOW
MORE LIKELY BECAUSE OF WHAT'S
HAPPENING IN THE SENATE?
IT'S ASSUMED THE
DEMOCRAT-CONTROLLED SENATE IS
GOING TO STRIP OUT THE DEFEND
HEALTH CARE REFORM PIECE OF
THIS.
IT'S GOING TO GO BACK TO THE
HOUSE.
IS THAT WHAT YOU EXPECT TO
HAPPEN?
IS A SHUTDOWN MORE LIKELY?
>> I HOPE NOT.
I'VE BEEN ARGUING WITHIN OUR
CONFERENCE AND TO ANYONE WILLING
TO LISTEN WE SHOULD HAVE BEEN
PASSING CONTINUING RESOLUTIONS
-- WE FIRST OF ALL SHOULD HAVE
PASSED APPROPRIATION BILLS,
REALIZING THE UNITED STATES
SENATE HASN'T PASSED AN
APPROPRIATION BILL IN OVER TWO
YEARS.
SO WE SHOULD HAVE BEEN DOING
THAT IN THE SUMMER BUT WHERE
WE'RE AT RIGHT NOW, AND
CERTAINLY IN THE PAST WHAT WE'VE
DONE PASSED ONE OR TWO WEAK
CONTINUING RESOLUTIONS TO ALLOW
US TO GET THROUGH THE TIME
PROCESS WHERE WE CAN GET A
LONGER CONTINUING RESOLUTION BUT
JUDY THIS IS A TERRIBLE WAY FOR
A GOVERNMENT TO FUNCTION.
IT'S HARD TO CONVEY THE
DYSFUNCTION THAT IS WASHINGTON,
D.C., SO MY MESSAGE TO THE
AMERICAN PUBLIC IS STOP RELYING
ON THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT TO
SOLVE YOUR PROBLEMS, THEY'RE
INCAPABLE OF DOING IT.
>> Woodruff: WHERE DO YOU SEE
THIS GOING RIGHT NOW, SENATOR
WARNER, NOW THAT THE CRUZ EFFORT
IS BEHIND THE SENATE.
WHAT HAPPENS NEXT?
>> YOU KNOW, I THINK THAT WE
WILL GO THROUGH A COUPLE MORE
VOTES, SEND IT BACK OVER TO THE
HOUSE, THEY'LL HAVE TO DECIDE
WHETHER THEY TAKE THAT OR THROW
IT BACK AND START ANOTHER CLOCK
RUNNING.
YOU KNOW, THIS AFFECTS PEOPLE'S
LIVES.
WE'RE GOING TO HAVE A WHOLE LOT
OF CIVILIAN DEFENSE EMPLOYEES
SENT HOME AND NOT GET PAID.
ADMIRAL COURTNY IN NORFOLK TODAY
SAID IF CONGRESS DOESN'T GET ITS
ACT TOGETHER ALL THE SOLDIERS
AND SAILORS WILL HAVE TO REPORT
BUT THEY'RE NOT GOING TO GET
PAID.
THIS IS NOT THE WAY TO RUN THE
LARGEST ENTERPRISE IN THE WORLD.
AND, YOU KNOW, ONE OF THE THINGS
I THINK RON AND I -- WE MAY HAVE
DISAGREEMENTS BUT I WOULD CONCUR
THAT WE OUGHT TO HAVE A BUDGET.
WE HAD -- WE ACTUALLY PASSED A
BUDGET.
RON DIDN'T AGREE WITH IT BUT WE
CAN'T EVEN GET THE BUDGET
CONFERENCE TOGETHER SO THE HOUSE
AND THE SENATE CAN TRY TO WORK
THIS PROCESS THROUGH.
AND IT MAKES NO SENSE TO ME TO
CONTINUE TO OPERATE THIS
GOVERNMENT.
RON WAS A BUSINESS GUY, I WAS A
BUSINESS GUY BEFORE WE WENT INTO
POLITICS.
OPERATE THIS GOVERNMENT ON THREE
WEEK, SIX WEEK, NINE WEEK
CONTINUING RESOLUTIONS WHEN NO
EFFICIENT BUSINESS WOULD OPERATE
THAT WAY.
SO I'M PRETTY DISCOURAGED.
I'VE BEEN INVOLVED IN ANY
BIPARTISAN EFFORT SINCE I'VE
BEEN HERE TO TRY TO GET OUR
BALANCE SHEET RIGHT.
END OF THE DAY, THIS PROBLEM IS
NOT GOING TO GET FIXED.
THIS ISN'T ABOUT OBAMACARE, IT'S
ABOUT HOW DO YOU GET OUR BALANCE
SHEET RIGHT?
AND THAT MEANS WE'RE GOING TO
HAVE TO DEAL WITH ENTITLEMENTS
AND THE DEMOCRATS THEREOF GIVE
ON THAT AND WE HAVE TO DEAL WITH
TAX REFORM TO GENERATE MORE
REVENUES, REPUBLICANS WILL HAVE
TO DEAL ON THAT.
IF NOT, WE'LL SEE THIS SAME
MOVIE PLAY OUT TIME AND TIME
AGAIN.
>> Woodruff: BUT IN THE SHORT
TERM, SENATOR JOHNSON, DO YOU
SEE FELLOW REPUBLICANS IN THE
HOUSE, TEA PARTY OR OTHER FISCAL
CONSERVATIVES, WHO FEEL STRONGLY
ABOUT THIS BUDGET?
WHO FEEL STRONGLY ABOUT HEALTH
CARE REFORM NOT GOING ALONG WITH
A FINAL SPENDING BILL AND
THEREFORE THE GOVERNMENT
SHUTTING DOWN?
>> WELL, I'VE WORKED AN AWFUL
LOT WITH MY HOUSE COLLEAGUES TO
TRY AND DETERMINE -- DEVELOP
STRATEGIES THAT WOULD WORK SO I
THINK WHAT'S GOING TO HAPPEN IS
THEY'RE GOING TO HOPEFULLY
PROVIDE SOME KIND OF CONTINUING
RESOLUTION AND PACKAGE IT UP IN
A FORM THAT HARRY REID BASICALLY
HAS TO SAY YES AND PRESIDENT
OBAMA IS GOING TO BE WILLING TO
SIGN IT.
>> Woodruff: INCLUDING FUNDING
OF OBAMACARE, THE HEALTH CARE
REFORM.
>> WELL, AGAIN, I THINK WE'RE
GOING TO RUN THAT PROCESS OUT.
I DON'T SEE THE PROSPECT THAT
HARRY REID WILL PASS A DEFUND
LAW OR PRESIDENT OBAMA WILL SIGN
IT.
POSSIBLY WE CAN WORK WITH
MEMBERS OF THE SENATE TO DELAY
OBAMACARE.
PRESIDENT OBAMA'S PRETTY WELL
IMPLICITLY ACKNOWLEDGED THE FACT
THAT HARRY REID AND MAX BAUCUS
WAS RIGHT WHEN THEY SAID THE
IMPLEMENTATION OF THIS IS A
TRAIN WRECK.
HE'S DELAYING ALL KINDS OF
DIFFERENT PORTIONS OF OBAMACARE
WITHOUT THE LEGAL AUTHORITY TO
DO SO, I MIGHT ADD.
SO MAYBE WE COULD GET DEMOCRATS
TO AGREE WITH AT LEAST A
ONE-YEAR DELAY.
THIS NOW LAW IS NOT READY FOR
PRIME TIME.
MAYBE THAT WOULD BE A
COMPROMISE.
BUT IN ANY EVENT, I DON'T WANT
TO PLAY BRINKSMANSHIP WITH THE
AMERICAN ECONOMY, I KNOW SENATOR
WARNER DOESN'T, I DON'T THINK
MANY REPUBLICANS DO.
SO LET'S GET PAST THIS TIME
FRAME, THIS PERIOD RIGHT NOW.
BUT WE HAVE TO ADDRESS OUR
LONG-TERM ENTITLEMENT PROBLEMS
BECAUSE IT'S BANKRUPTING THIS
NATION.
>> Woodruff: I'M ASKING YOU
WHAT MAY HAPPEN IN THE HOUSE,
SENATOR WARNER, BUT YOUR FELLOW
DEMOCRATS, DO YOU BELIEVE
THEY'RE PREPARED TO GO ALONG
WITH SPEAKER BOEHNER IF HE TRIES
TO GET THIS BUDGET -- THIS
SPENDING PROPOSAL THROUGH AND
NEEDS DEMOCRATIC VOTES IN ORDER
TO DO SO?
>> I THINK IF HE NEEDS
DEMOCRATIC VOTES TO ACCEPT A --
WHAT I THINK THE SENATE WILL
SEND OVER, A SHORT-TERM FUNDING
MECHANISM THAT ALLOWS US TO HAVE
FURTHER DEBATE ON THE HEALTH
CARE BILL AT ANOTHER TIME, YEAH.
I THINK SPEAKER BANER WILL GET
THE VOTES.
I GUESS ONE OF THE THINGS I FEEL
THERE IS SOME GOOD THINGS IN
OBAMACARE, THERE'S BAD THINGS IN
OBAMACARE.
TODAY IT CAME OUT IN VIRGINIA
THAT WE'RE GOING TO ACTUALLY
HAVE COMPETITION IN A WHOLE LOT
OF PARTS OF VIRGINIA THAT NEVER
HAD PRIVATE HEALTH CARE
INSURANCE COMPETITION IN THE
PAST.
WE SAW A LOT OF THE RATES FOR
THE 20% OF VIRGINNIANS ELIGIBLE
TO GET INTO THIS MARKETPLACE,
THE RATES WILL BE LOWER THAN HA
WHAT'S OFFERED RIGHT NOW.
R-Z THERE THINGS THAT CAN BE
CHANGED IN OBAMACARE?
LIKE THE DISINCENTIVE TO HIRE
FULL-TIME WORKERS?
ABSOLUTELY.
LET'S HAVE THAT DEBATE.
BUT THIS ALL-OR-NOTHING APPROACH
THAT SOME MEMBERS OF THE SENATE
AND SOME MEMBERS OF THE HOUSE
ARE PROPOSING I THINK IS A
POLITICAL THEATER THAT
JEOPARDIZES WHAT MEAGER RECOVERY
WE HAVE GOING ON RIGHT NOW.
>> Woodruff: VERY QUICKLY TO
THE TWO OF YOU.
WHAT SOME MEMBERS ARE EVEN MORE
CONCERNED ABOUT IS THE DEBT
CEILING.
WE HEARD FROM THE TREASURY
DEPARTMENT TODAY THAT IT'S JUST
A FEW WEEKS AWAY FROM THE
COUNTRY -- THE GOVERNMENT
EXCEEDING THE PERMITTED DEBT
CEILING.
DO YOU THINK WE'RE GOING TO SEE
ANOTHER SHOWDOWN LIKE THIS OVER
THAT?
>> ANY TIME THE PRESIDENT COMES
TO CONGRESS ASKING FOR THE
AUTHORITY TO INCREASE THE DEBT
BURDEN ON OUR CHILDREN AND
GRANDCHILDREN WE SHOULD HAVE A
DEBATE.
WE SHOULD HAVE DISCUSSION.
AND IF WE'RE GOING TO INCREASE
THAT DEBT BURDEN ON OUR KIDS AND
GRAND KIDS THERE SHOULD BE
SOMETHING GIVEN IN EXCHANGE IN
TERMS OF SOME LEVEL OF FISCAL
DISCIPLINE SO, YEAH, I THINK
THERE'S GOING TO BE A DEBATE.
>> Woodruff: SENATOR WARNER?
>> LISTEN, I LAID OUT A PLAN
THAT WAS BASED ON THE SIMPSON
BOWLES PLAN, THE SO-CALLED GANG
OF SIX PLAN THAT WOULD HAVE GOT
US WHERE WE NEEDED TO GO.
IT WASN'T PERFT BECUT IT SHOWED
REAL ENTITLEMENT REFORM AND REAL
REVENUE GENERATION.
THAT'S A FAIR DEBATE.
BUT TO BASICALLY PUT IN JEOPARDY
AT THIS MOMENT WITH THE WORLD
ECONOMY TEETERING THE FULL FAITH
AND CREDIT OF THE UNITED STATES
AND TO HAVE MEMBERS OF THE
SENATE-- AND RON JOHNSON ISN'T
SAYING THIS, BUT THERE ARE
MEMBERS IN BOTH BODIES WHO ARE
SAYING THIS WOULD NOT BE A
PROBLEM IF AMERICA DEFAULTED--
THERE IS NO GREAT INDUSTRIAL
NATION THAT HAS EVER DEFAULTED
AND I DON'T CARE WHETHER IT
WOULD BE A PRESIDENT OBAMA OR A
PRESIDENT ROMNEY, I DON'T THINK
ANYONE SHOULD BE PLAYING
POLITICS WITH THE FULL FAITH AND
CREDIT OF THE UNITED STATES OF
AMERICA.
>> Woodruff: WE'RE GOING TO
LEAVE IT THERE.
SENATOR MARK WARNER, SENATOR RON
JOHNSON, THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: NOW WE TAKE A DEEPER
DIVE INTO THE HEALTHCARE STORY
WITH THE FIRST LOOK AT WHAT
PREMIUMS WILL COST AS THE NEW
MARKETPLACES KNOWN AS EXCHANGES
COME ON LINE.
AMONG THE DETAILS RELEASED
TODAY:
CUSTOMERS WILL BE ABLE TO CHOOSE
FROM A VARIETY OF PLANS, RANGING
FROM LOWER-COST PLANS IN A
BRONZE OR SILVER CATEGORY WITH
LESS COVERAGE, TO HIGHER COST
ONES KNOWN AS GOLDR PL OATINUM
WITH GREATER COVERAGE AND
BENEFITS.
THE AVERAGE MONTHLY PREMIUM FOR
AN INDIVIDUAL BUYING INSURANCE
THROUGH ONE OF THE CHEAPER
OPTIONS WILL BE $328 A MONTH.
THEN IT GETS COMPLICATED.
RAY SUAREZ PICKS IT UP FROM
THERE.
>> Suarez: IT'S NOT SIMPLY A
MATTER OF PICKING AMONG THESE
DIFFERENT CATEGORIES LIKE BRONZE
OR SILVER.
EACH CLASS OF PLANS WILL HAVE A
NUMBER OF OPTIONS TO CHOOSE FROM
AND IN MANY CASES, PEOPLE WILL
ALSO BE ABLE TO GET A SUBSIDY TO
HELP PURCHASE THE INSURANCE.
BUT THE PREMIUMS WILL VARY BY
AGE, HEALTH STATUS, GEOGRAPHY
AND OTHER FACTORS.
AND THERE ARE ADDITIONAL COSTS,
TOO.
WE TRY TO WALK THROUGH THIS NOW
WITH LOUISE RADNOFSKY OF THE
"WALL STREET JOURNAL."
LOUISE, FOR A LONG TIME THE
OPPONENTS OF THE AFFORDABLE CARE
ACT HAVE THREATENED THAT
PREMIUMS WERE GOING TO GO WAY UP
ONCE THESE EXCHANGES OPENED AND
PEOPLE HAD TO BUY THEIR OWN
INSURANCE.
NOW THE ADMINISTRATION ANSWERS
WITH ITS OWN SURVEY OF THE
PRODUCTS BEING OFFERED IN THOSE
EXCHANGES.
WHAT DO THEY HAVE TO SAY?
>> WELL, THE DATA HAS SOMETHING
FOR EVERYBODY.
IT IS TRUE THAT FOR YOUNG,
HEALTHY PEOPLE WHO PREVIOUSLY
GOT VERY ATTRACTIVE RATES
BECAUSE THEY WERE KNOWN TO
INSURERS TO BE A REALLY GOOD
RISK, THEY MIGHT SEE THAT THEIR
SKIMPY PRODUCTS THAT THEY
CURRENTLY HAVE AREN'T AVAILABLE
ANYMORE AND THAT THEIR RATES ARE
GOING UP ONCE THEY'RE BEING
TREATED BLINDLY.
AT THE SAME TIME, IF YOU WERE AN
OLDER OR SICKER CONSUMER AND YOU
WERE BEING RATED ON YOUR HEALTH
STATUS, YOU WON'T BE RATED ON IT
NEXT YEAR, YOU MIGHT SEE YOUR
PREMIUM GO DOWN.
YOU MIGHT SEE YOU'RE GETTING A
MORE GENEROUS COVERAGE FOR A
SIMILAR RATE.
THIS COULD BE A BIG WIN.
THE ADMINISTRATION IS ALSO ABLE
TO POINT TO THE RATES THAT HAVE
COME IN BEING LOWER THAN THEY
WERE EXPECTED TO BE BY THE
CONGRESSIONAL BOUGHT OFFICE.
SO THAT'S WHY THEY'RE SAYING
THESE ARE LESS EXPENSIVE THAN
EXPECTED.
>> Suarez: IS THIS REALLY THE
DESIGN OF THE PROGRAM?
HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
SECRETARY KATHLEEN SEBELIUS SAID
"IN MANY CASES PREMIUMS WILL
COST SIGNIFICANTLY LESS THAN
WHAT WAS ORIGINALLY PROJECTED."
IS IT BECAUSE OF THE WAY THESE
MARKETPLACES HAVE BEEN
STRUCTURED?
>> THE ADMINISTRATION IS
CERTAINLY PRAISING THE
COMPETITION.
THEY'RE HOPING WHEN PLANS BECOME
MORE UNIFORM AND PEOPLE ARE ABLE
TO COMPARE THEM SIDE BY SIDE
THEY MIGHT MAKE DECISIONS MORE
ON COMPETITION AND THE INSURERS
WILL BEHAVE ACCORDINGLY.
>> Suarez: THERE ARE FAMILIES
OF DIFFERENT SIZE-- OBVIOUSLY--
DIFFERENT LEVELS OF COVERAGE, AS
WE'VE DISCUSSED IN THE DIFFERENT
PLANS.
TO ARRIVE AT THE NUMBERS THAT
THEY RELEASED IN THIS SURVEY,
DOES THE ADMINISTRATION COMPARE
APPLES TO APPLES LIKE POLICIES
TO LIKE POLICIES ACROSS THE
STATES?
>> THE NATURE OF INSURANCE AND
WHAT IT COVERS IS CHANGING
FUNDAMENTALLY BETWEEN 2013 AND
2014, THE WAY IT'S PRICED IS
ALSO CHANGING.
THERE ISN'T AN APPLES-TO-APPLES
COMPARISON.
THE ADMINISTRATION TRIES TO DO
IT BUT ISN'T ABLE TO.
NOBODY IS TRULY ABLE TO DO IT.
BUT IF YOU'RE INTERESTED IN THE
FRUIT MARKET, THEN
APPLES-TO-ORANGES IS AN
IMPORTANT COMPARISON.
>> Suarez: OBAMA'S ASSISTANT
FOR HEALTH POLICY, THE
PRESIDENT'S ADVISOR IN THIS
REGARD, SAYS THAT THE EXCHANGES
HAVE DONE A PRETTY GOOD JOB OF
GETTING AFFORDABLE OPTIONS ON
THE SHELVES.
ARE WE TALKING JUST ABOUT THE
STATES WHERE THE FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT WILL BE MANAGING THE
EXCHANGE RATHER THAN STATES THAT
ARE DOING THEIR OWN PROGRAMS?
>> WELL, WHAT THE ADMINISTRATION
RELEASED TODAY IS DATA ON THE 36
STATES WHERE IT'S RUNNING SOME
OR ALL OF THE MARKETPLACES.
THERE'S SOME HUGE MARKETS IN
THERE LIKE TEXAS AND
PENNSYLVANIA THAT WE DIDN'T HAVE
A GLIMPSE INTO IN THE FEDERAL
DATA CAME OUT.
WE'VE SEEN SOME DATA FROM OTHER
STATES BEFORE.
WE'VE SEEN INFORMATION FROM
STATES RUNNING THEIR OWN
EXCHANGES, NORTHEASTERN, STATES
IN CALIFORNIA, NEW YORK, PLACES
LIKE THIS.
AND WHAT WE'RE SEEING THERE IS
RELATIVELY SIMILAR TO WHAT'S
GOING NONTHESE STATES.
IT'S BEEN REALLY INTERESTING.
>> Suarez: COMPETITION WAS
SUPPOSED TO BRING DOWN PRICES
AND THE NUMBER OF CHOICES IN
THESE STATES RANGE FROM JUST A
FEW-- LIKE SEVEN OR EIGHT
POLICIES-- ALL THE WAY TO 106
DIFFERENT PRODUCTS.
IN THOSE PLACES WHERE THERE ARE
MORE PARTICIPANTS IN THE MARKET
OFFERING MORE PRODUCTS ARE THE
PRICES LOWER?
IS IT WORKING OUT THAT WAY?
>> THAT'S CERTAINLY SOMETHING
THE ADMINISTRATION IS POINTING
TO.
THEY'RE VERY HOPEFUL COMPETITION
HAS BROUGHT DOWN PRICES.
THE NUMBER OF CARRIERS AVAILABLE
IN A GIVEN AREA AND THE PRICES
OF PREMIUMS IN A GIVEN AREA ARE
TIED TO LOCAL HEALTH CONDITIONS
AND THE COST OF DELIVERING CARE,
THE COST OF LIVING IN THE AREA
AS WELL AS A NUMBER OF OTHER
FACTORS.
IT'S HARD TO PINPOINT ONE.
CERTAINLY ONE OF THE ARGUMENTS
GOING AROUND IS THAT OFFICIALS
IN STATES THAT ARE SUPPORTIVE OF
THE LAW HAVE DONE VARIOUS THINGS
TO TRY TO MAKE PREMIUMS LOWER.
THERE'S NOT A LOT OF EVIDENCE TO
SUPPORT THAT BEING THE ONLY
FACTOR BUT IT COULD BE ONE.
>> Suarez: LET'S TALK ABOUT
THAT A LITTLE MORE.
THERE ARE WIDE VARIATIONS IN
WHAT THESE POLICIES ARE GOING TO
COST STATE TO STATE.
WHEN YOU DO CONTROL FOR HOW MANY
PEOPLE YOU'RE BUYING FOR AND
WHAT PRECIOUS MEDAL YOU'RE
WORKING WITH, SILVER OR PLATINUM
OR GOLD.
IN SOME STATES IT'S JUST SO MUCH
MORE MONEY.
WHAT IS IT THAT DRIVES HEALTH
CARE COSTS IN THOSE PLACES?
WHAT MAKES IT MORE COSTLY TO GET
TREATMENT AND ALWAYS -- IT WAS
THE CASE BEFORE THE AFFORDABLE
CARE ACT.
WHAT MAKES HEALTH CARE MORE
EXPENSIVE IN SOME PLACES THAN
OTHERS?
>> WHAT'S REALLY INTERESTING IS
THAT WHILE THERE IS STILL A
STRIKING RANGE TO PEOPLE IN
PREMIUMS BETWEEN THE STATES
THEY'RE CLOSER THAN THEY WERE
BEFORE BECAUSE BEFORE YOU HAD
STATE INSURANCE PRACTICES THAT
VARIED MUCH MORE WIDELY.
THE FEDERAL RULES CREATE A NEW
STANDARD WHERE AT LEAST
INSURANCE IS SIMILAR STATE TO
STATE IF YOU WANT TO MAKE
COMPARISONS BUT IT'S TRUE THAT
DELIVERING CARE IN WYOMING, FOR
EXAMPLE, A RURAL AREA, IS
GENERALLY CONSIDERED TO BE MORE
EXPENSIVE.
DELIVERING CARE IN THE NORTHEAST
BECAUSE OF THE COST OF LIVING,
IN MASSACHUSETTS EVEN BEFORE THE
STATE OVERHAUL LAW WAS
EXPENSIVE.
ONE OF THE STATES THAT CAME IN
WITH VERY LOW PREMIUMS IS
TENNESSEE AND PARTICULARLY IN
THE NASHVILLE AREA.
IT MAY HAVE SOMETHING TO DO WITH
THE WAY THE HEALTH ECONOMY THERE
OPERATES OR IT MAY BE SOMETHING
ELSE TO DO WITH TENNESSEE.
'S
THERE'S MORE GRIST TO DELL INTO
IT IN FUTURE YEARS THAN THERE
HAS BEEN BEFORE.
>> Suarez: ARE THE PEOPLE
RUNNING THESE EXCHANGES FOR THE
FEDERAL PART OF THE PLAN, ARE
THEY EXPECTING THAT CUSTOMERS
WILL ONLY SLOWLY COMMIT?
THE WINDOWS OPEN UP ON OCTOBER
1, NEXT TUESDAY, FOR SIX MONTHS.
IS IT GOING TO BE A RUSH TO BEAT
THE DEADLINE AT THE END OR DO
THEY EXPECT STEADY TRAFFIC
THROUGH THE WHOLE PERIOD?
>> THEY'RE NOT ENTIRELY SURE
WHAT TO EXPECT BUT
ADMINISTRATION OFFICIALS HAVE
BEEN DOWN PLAYING THE OCTOBER 1
START DATE FOR A WHILE NOW
SAYING IT'S THE LAUNCH OF THE
SIX-MONTH PERIOD, PEOPLE CAN
COME IN AT ANY TIME.
THEY DO HAVE TO HAVE COVERAGE
STARTING JANUARY 1 TO AVOID A
PENALTY ALTHOUGH REALLY IN
PRACTICE THERE'S PROBABLY A FEW
WEEKS LEEWAY EVEN AFTER THAT.
WHAT PEOPLE ARE BEING ENCOURAGED
TO DO, PARTICULARLY BY CONSUMER
ADVOCATES, IS BY DECEMBER 15 TO
HAVE COVERAGE THAT STARTS
JANUARY 1 TO GET THE MAXIMUM
BENEFIT OUT OF WHAT THEY'RE
BEING OFFERED.
>> Suarez: SO IF YOU DO NEED
HEALTH INSURANCE, MIGHT AS WELL
BUY IT ONCE IT TAKES EFFECT,
RIGHT?
>> RIGHT.
YOU CAN'T GET COVERAGE -- YOUR
COVERAGE WON'T TAKE EFFECT UNTIL
JANUARY 1.
YOU COULD BUY IT EARLY OR LATER
BUT EITHER WAY YOU WON'T BE
COVERED IF YOU DON'T CURRENTLY
IS A PLAN BY BUYING SOMETHING ON
THE NEW EXCHANGE UNTIL JANUARY
1.
THAT'S THE REAL START DAY.
>> Suarez: LOUISE RADNOFSKY OF
THE "WALL STREET JOURNAL,"
THANKS A LOT.
>> Ifill: THE LATEST INFORMATION
ON THE GUNMAN IN THE NAVY YARD
SHOOTINGS COMES AMID MORE
DISCLOSURES THIS WEEK ABOUT HIS
OWN TROUBLES WITH MENTAL ILLNESS
AND PROBLEMS NEVER FULLY
REPORTED ALL THE WAY UP THE
CHAIN.
IT'S ALSO PROMPTING QUESTIONS
ABOUT WHETHER BETTER SCREENING
AND TREATMENT COULD HELP PREVENT
SOME OF THE MASS KILLINGS.
FOR SOME PERSPECTIVE, WE TURN TO
BARRY ROSENFELD OF FORDHAM
UNIVERSITY.
HE IS A CLINICAL FORENSIC
PSYCHOLOGIST, WHOSE RECENT WORK
HAS FOCUSED ON ASSESSING THE
RISK OF VIOLENCE IN PATIENTS.
WELCOME, DR. ROSENFELDE.
COULD YOU EXPLAIN TO US WHAT WE
DON'T KNOW?
HOW CAN WE DETERMINE WHEN
SOMEONE IS SICK ENOUGH TO KEEP
AN EYE ON WHO MAY CRACK?
>> WELL, THAT'S ABOUT FOUR
THINGS ALL AT ONCE.
WHAT WE DON'T KNOW IS A PRETTY
LONG LIST.
WE'VE COME A LONG WAYS IN TERMS
OF WHAT WE UNDERSTAND ABOUT
MENTAL ILLNESS AND VIOLENCE.
WE DO MUCH BETTER WHEN WE LOOK
AT THINGS AT THE AGGREGATE.
WE HAVE GENERAL IDEAS THAT WHEN
PEOPLE HAVE -- OR GENERAL --
GENERALLY ACCEPTED RESEARCH THAT
WHEN PEOPLE HAVE SOME OF THE
BELIEFS THAT, IN FACT,
MR. ALEXIS REVEALED, THINGS LIKE
DELUSIONS THAT YOU'RE BEING
CONTROLLED BY OTHER PEOPLE,
WE'RE PRETTY GOOD AT RECOGNIZING
THOSE AT RISK FACTORS FOR FUTURE
VIOLENCE.
WE'RE VERY GOOD AT THE MACRO
LEVEL, SAYING HERE'S 100 PEOPLE,
THESE THE HANDFUL THAT I THINK
ARE AT THE GREATEST RISK.
WWE HAVE A MUCH HARDER TIME WHEN
IT COMES TO AN INDIVIDUAL
PREDICTION.
TO SAY HOW ABOUT THIS ONE PERSON
SITTING IN FRONT OF US?
AND THAT'S A REALLY IN DEPTH AND
DETAILED ANALYSIS THAT TAKES
QUITE A BIT OF EFFORT THAT WE
CAN'T DO ON THE FLY IN AN
EMERGENCY ROOM WHEN SOMEBODY
COMES IN AND ASKS FOR MEDICATION
FOR INSOMNIA.
>> Ifill: SO WHY IS IT SO
HEART?
WHAT IS TO BE ARGUED AGAINST
TRYING TO PUT A RED FLAG ON
ANYONE WHO COMES TO YOU OR COMES
TO SEVERAL DIFFERENT MENTAL
HEALTH ORGANIZATIONS AS HE DID
AND SAYS "I'M HEARING VOICES"?
>> WELL, YOU KNOW, WHAT'S HARD
ABOUT IT?
THERE'S MANY THINGS THAT ARE
HARD ABOUT IT.
FIRST OF ALL, WE DON'T HAVE ANY
KIND OF CENTRALIZED FOCUS, A
CENTRALIZED SYSTEM WHERE WE CAN
SAY THIS PERSON'S COMING TO
HOSPITAL A, OH, HE WAS IN
HOSPITAL C LAST WEEK.
WE DON'T HAVE, THAT I'M AWARE
NOVEMBER MANY SYSTEMS, THAT KIND
OF ABILITY TO RECOGNIZE A
PATTERN LIKE THAT.
SO IF SOMEBODY COMES INTO THE
SAME HOSPITAL REPEATEDLY AND
SEES MAYBE EVEN THE SAME
DOCTORS, WE'RE GOING RECOGNIZE
THAT PATTERN.
BUT WHEN SOMEONE GOES PLACE TO
PLACE AND MAYBE EVEN ACROSS
STATE LINES WE'RE NOT GOING TO
KNOW THAT THEY'VE GONE TO OTHER
PLACES.
WHEN SOMEONE COMES IN AND SHOWS
ONE OF THESE RED FLAG SYMPTOMS S
THAT WE'RE AWARE OF, ASSUMING
THE PERSON THAT'S SEEN THEM
RECOGNIZES THOSE AS RED FLAGS--
ANDTHINK THAT'S ANOTHER
HURDLE THAT HAS TO BE OVERCOME,
THEN I THINK WE DO HAVE
MECHANISMS FOR LET'S SAY
HOSPITALIZING PEOPLE FOR
OBSERVATION AND TREATMENT.
WE'VE COME A LONG WAYS IN TERMS
OF RECOGNIZING AND TREATING THE
PATIENTS WE IDENTIFY, BUT WE'RE
STILL TALKING ABOUT A VERY SMALL
MINORITY OF PEOPLE WITH MENTAL
ILLNESS AND PICKING THAT ONE IS
A REAL CHALLENGE.
>> Ifill: WHAT HAVE WE
LEARNED, IF ANYTHING, FROM PAST
MASS KILLINGS.
WE HEARD THE PRESIDENT THIS
WEEKEND TALK ABOUT HOW HAS BEEN
TO FIVE DIFFERENT LOCATIONS NOW
WHERE THERE WERE MASS KILLINGS
TO GRIEVE WITH THE VICTIMS.
HAVE WE LEARNED ANYTHING FROM
WHAT THESE ALLEGEED IN MANY
CASES AND CONVICTED IN OTHER
CASES OR MURDERED IN OTHER CASES
OF SHOOTERS, WHAT WE LEARNED
ABOUT THEM THAT WE CAN APPLY FOR
FUTURE POSSIBILITIES?
>> WELL, YOU KNOW, I HATE TO
SOUND PESSIMISTIC BUT I THINK
ONE OF THE THINGS WE'VE LEARNED
IS THAT THERE'S A GREAT DEAL OF
VARIABILITY IN WHAT PEOPLE LOOK
LIKE WHO ENGAGE IN THIS KIND OF
BEHAVIOR.
SOME HAVE SERIOUS MENTAL ILLNESS
THAT'S OBVIOUS TO ANYONE WHO
ASKS THEM.
OTHERS SEEM TO BE QUOTE/UNQUOTE
NORMAL UNTIL WE DIG AND DIG AND
DIG AND THEN WE FIND THINGS THAT
ARE RELATIVELY SUBTLE.
SO THE IDEA THAT THERE'S SOME
PROFILE OUT THERE AND WE CAN
JUST MAKE A CHECKLIST AND SAY
HERE ARE THE EIGHT THINGS TO
LOOK FOR OR HERE ARE THE THREE
THINGS TO LOOK FOR, I THINK WHAT
THESE REPEATED EPISODES SHOW US
IS THAT IT'S REALLY A VERY BROAD
RANGE OF THINGS THAT LEAD PEOPLE
TO THE SAME OUTCOME.
>> Woodruff: AND THAT THE
CRACKS THAT THEY SLIP THROUGH
CAN'T NECESSARILY BE SEALED?
>> WELL, HOW COULD THEY BE
SEALD?
THEY COULD BE SEALED BY HAVING
SOME KIND OF CENTRALIZED HEALTH
CARE REGISTRY.
THEY COULD BE SEALED IF WHEN
SOMEONE WENT TO PURCHASE A GUN
THEY LOOKED ONLINE AND SAW, OH,
THIS PERSON PRESENTED AT AN
EMERGENCY ROOM WITH PARANOID
SYMPTOMS.
MAYBE THERE'S SOME PROVISION IN
PLACE FOR NOT GIVING THEM A GUN.
THEY COULD BE SEALED, BUT THAT
REQUIRES A LOT OF STEPS THAT I
THINK MANY PEOPLE ARE
UNCOMFORTABLE WITH AND A GREAT
DEAL OF INFRINGEMENT ON THE
RIGHTS OF PEOPLE WHO DON'T NEED
THOSE CRACKS SEALED FOR THEM SO
TO FIND THAT NEED UNTIL A HAY
STEBG WE HAVE TO STEP ON A LOT
OF PEOPLE'S RIGHTS AND THAT'S
WHERE WE RUN INTO A LOT OF
SROBLEM.
>> Ifill: BARRY ROSENFELD OF
FORDHAM UNIVERSITY, THANK YOU SO
MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: BROADCAST TV
NETWORKS ARE CLAMORING FOR NEW
VIEWERS THIS FALL.
BUT BEYOND THE TRADITIONAL
SCRAMBLE FOR ADS AND RATINGS,
THE NETWORKS AND THE COMPANIES
THAT OWN THEM ARE ALSO PREPARING
IN TO DO BATTLE WITH AN ENTIRELY
NEW SET OF COMPETITORS.
HARI SREENIVASAN GETS THE
PERSPECTIVE FROM ONE OF THE
INDUSTRY'S BIGGEST PLAYERS
TONIGHT, PART OF OUR OCCASIONAL
SERIES ON THE FUTURE OF T.V.
>> Sreenivasan: WITH ALL THE NEW
>> WELL, YOU HAVE THIS FANTASTIC
MOMENT IN TIME WITH ALL THE
TECHNOLOGIES PROGRESSING SO
QUICKLY BUT IPADS OR TABLETS
THAT THE LAST FOOT MAY BE
WIRELESS.
YOU HAVE WI-FI GETTING BETTER
AND MORE UBIQUITOUS.
IN THE CASE OF COMCAST, WE'RE
TAKING A LOT OF OUR TECHNOLOGY
INTO THE CLOUD SO YOU DON'T NEED
A NEW BOX EVERY TIME YOU WANT TO
INNOVATE.
AND IT'S ALL SPEEDING UP.
AND SO IT'S AN EXCITING,
INVIGORATING TIME FOR THE
INDUSTRY AND FOR THE CONSUMER.
>> Sreenivasan: IS THE
DEFINITION OF TELEVISION
CHANGING BACK INTO THAT OF AN
APPLIANCE?
IT'S JUST A BIGGER SCREEN TO
VIEW THIS CONTENT?
>> I THINK THE DEFINITION OF
TELEVISION MAY BE THAT BUT I
THINK THE DEFINITION OF WHAT THE
CONSUMER GETS AND WHAT THE
CONSUMER EXPECTS TO GET IS EVERY
PIECE OF CONTENT WHEREVER AND
WHEN EVER THEY SO CHOOSE TO HAVE
IT.
SOMETIMES IT'S "FREE, SOMETIMES
IT'S PART OF A BUNDLE, SOMETIMES
IT'S PAY-PER-VIEW, SOMETIMES
IT'S ALL ABOUT ADVERTISING.
OR SEARCH.
BUT ONE WAY OR THE OTHER ON
WHATEVER DEVICE YOU LIKE YOU
WANT TO GET AS MUCH ACCESS AS
POSSIBLE AND THAT'S WHAT
COMCAST'S STRATEGY HAS BEEN
ABOUT FOR FIVE YEARS.
>> Sreenivasan: WE'RE SEEING
AN INCREASE IN BROADBAND
SUBSCRIBERSHIP BUT A DECLINE IN
CABLE SUBSCRIBERS.
DO YOU SEE A TIPPING POINT WHERE
CABLE TELEVISION AS WE KNOW IT
TODAY ARE CHALLENGED BECAUSE
MORE PEOPLE WANT THE PIPE?
>> I THINK THAT'S A BIT
OVERBLOWN.
I THINK WE STILL HAVE AS MANY
CUSTOMERS BASICALLY AS WE
STARTED THE YEAR OR SO.
I THE CONSUMER IS STILL SAYING I
WANT LIVE SPORTS, I WANT ALL
THOSE CHANNELS.
SOME CUSTOMERS SAY I DON'T NEED
THAT.
MOST CUSTOMERS DO.
IT'S IMPORTANT WE STAY IN TOUCH
WITH OUR CUSTOMER AND TRY TO
OVER TIME ARE HAVE MORE PACKAGES
AND FLEXIBILITY THAN PERHAPS
WE'VE HISTORICALLY OFFERED AND
THAT'S PART OF THIS THAEPBGS IS
HEALTHY THAT IS GOING ON IN THE
MARKETPLACE.
>> Sreenivasan: I RECENTLY
MOVED TO NEW YORK AND I HAD TO
SIGN UP FOR CABLE AND IT WAS ONE
OF THOSE SCENARIOS WHERE I DON'T
WATCH THE OTHER 52 CHANNELS
YOU'RE SELLING ME, I JUST WANT
THESE SIX.
IS UNBUNDLING EVER GOING TO
HAPPEN?
>> WELL, I LOOK AT PBS.
IF YOU HAD TO PAY SEPARATELY FOR
JUST PBS PROBABLY, SADLY, NOT A
MAJORITY OF AMERICANS WOULD DO
THAT.
SO THERE'S MANY CHANNELS,
WHETHER IT'S DISCOVERY CHANNEL
OR C-SPAN OR MANY, MANY OTHERS
THAT JUST AREN'T VIABLE.
YOU CAN'T JUST BUY THE SPORTS
SECTION OF THE "NEW YORK TIMES",
YOU TAKE THE WHOLE PAPER.
THAT'S BEEN THE HISTORIC MODEL
AND WHAT ADVERTISERS HAVE
WANTED.
MOST EVERY STUDY I'VE SEEN
SUPPORTS THAT ECONOMIC
RATIONALE.
BUT THERE'S SOME THINGS THAT ARE
GETTING VERY EXPENSIVE AND IF
THERE'S A WAY TO SAY TO SOME OF
OUR CUSTOMERS YOU DON'T HAVE TO
TAKE EVERYTHING THERE'S A
DIFFERENT PACKAGE.
WE ARE TRYING TO DO THAT.
WE'VE BEEN EXPERIMENTING WITH
THAT.
OTHER COMPANIES ARE AS WELL.
>> Sreenivasan: ONE OF THE
SIGNIFICANT DISRUPTIONS ON THE
HORIZON IS THIS TINY STARTUP
CALLED AEREO AND THEY'RE SAYING
WE'RE THE EXEXTENSION OF AN
ANTENNA.
WE ARE NOT VIOLATION OF THE
SPIRIT OF THE LAW AND PRODUCERS,
DISTRIBUTORS AND INCLUDING ONE
LAWSUIT PBS IN THE NEW YORK
MARKET SAY THAT'S NOT THE CASE.
WHY ARE THEY WRONG?
>> THERE IS A LAW THAT SAYS YOU
HAVE TO GET THE CONSENT OF THAT
BROADCASTER BEFORE YOU CAN
RETRANSMIT THEIR SIGNAL.
AND THAT'S WHAT CBS TIME WARNER
WAS ALL ABOUT THAT.
CBS RETRANSMISSION FEE.
SO HERE COMES A COMPANY THAT
SAYS "I DON'T WANT TO PAY THAT
FEE."
WELL, I UNDERSTAND THAT BUT I
DON'T THINK THAT'S THE LAW OF
THE LAND.
>> Sreenivasan: SO LET'S SAY
WE HAVE THIS CONVERSATION TEN
YEARS FROM NOW.
WHAT I DOES THE TELEVISION
LANDSCAPE LOOK LIKE?
>> I WISH I HAD THE PERFECT
CRYSTAL BALL BUT I THINK FOR THE
LAST 30 YEARS NOBODY'S EVER BEEN
ABLE TO SAY QUITE WHAT'S NEXT.
SO IF I HAD TO GUESS THERE'S
GOING TO BE A LOT CHEAPER
DEVICE, TABLETS IF YOU WILL.
WHETHER IT'S EYEGLASSES OR
WATCHES OR A LITTLE BIT OF
EVERYTHING.
I THINK PERSONALIZATION IS
CLEARLY A TREND.
I WANT WHAT I WANT.
IT'S MY T.V., MY DEVICE, MY
PHONE, SO WE'RE DOING A LOT OF
THAT.
SPEEDS ARE MIND-BOGGLING.
THE CAPACITY OF STORAGE IS
MIND-BOGGLING.
SO OUR BET AS A COMPANY IS TO
TRY TO BE PART OF BROADBAND, BE
PART OF WI-FI, HAVE A WIRELESS
RELATIONSHIP, HAVE A CONTENT
RELATIONSHIP AND TRY TO TOUCH AS
MANY PARTS OF THAT CHANGING
LANDSCAPE AS POSSIBLE.
BUT I THINK IT'S GOING TO BE
VERY EXCITING, CONSUMERS ARE
GOING TO LOVE IT AND I CAN'T
WAIT.
>> Sreenivasan: ALL RIGHT,
FROM THIS IS FROM THE INTERNET
AUDIENCE.
A LAWYER IN SEATTLE ASKS "CAN
MR. ROBERTS SEE A DAY WHERE
THERE ARE NO TRADITIONAL
NETWORKS AND MERELY STREAMING
OPTIONS?".
>> WELL, ANYTHING'S POSSIBLE BUT
THERE L THERE BE A LOT OF
CHOICES THAT DON'T INVOLVE
NETWORKS?
ABSOLUTELY.
EVEN ON THE INTERNET IF YOU LOOK
AT YOUTUBE CHANNELS, THERE'S
THEMES AND WAYS TO GET TO
CONTENT THAT IN EFFECT IS SOME
OF THE FUNCTION OF THE NETWORK
AND I THINK IT'S HARD FOR KNOW
IMAGINE A WORLD WITH NO NETWORKS
IN TEN YEARS.
>> Sreenivasan: DO YOU THINK
THE INTERNET WILL BECOME A
UTILITY LIKE POWER AND WATER?
>> I HOPE NOT.
I DON'T THINK REGULATION IS THE
ANSWER AND THE GOVERNMENT
SETTING STANDARDS.
I THINK IT'S A RACE TO INNOVATE
AND IF YOU LOOK AT THE LAST TEN
YEARS IT WASN'T THIS INNOVATION
WHETHER IT WAS A TABLET OR
WHETHER IT'S OUR CABLE BOX
GETTING SMALLER AND MORE
POWERFUL AND TAKING THE D.V.R.
AND PUTTING IN THE THE CLOUD SO
YOU CAN HAVE IT ON ANY DEVICE.
THESE THINGS ARE ALL CHANGES
BECAUSE THERE'S LESS MAKING IT
LIKE A UTILITY AND MORE A
COMPETITIVE INDUSTRY WHERE
YOU'RE ON EDGE, YOU'RE EXIDEING
BUT YOU'RE RACING.
>> Sreenivasan: BRIAN ROBERTS,
THANKS SO MUCH FOR YOUR TIME.
>> MY PLEASURE.
>> Ifill: THAT WAS BRIAN
ROBERTS, C.E.O. OF COME CAST
TALKING WITH HARI SREENIVASAN IN
NEW YORK.
HERE'S SOME BACKGROUND ON THE
CHANGING T.V. LANDSCAPE THEY
DISCUSSED.
>> Sreenivasan: WITH ALL THE NEW
WAYS TO CONSUME MEDIA-- PHONES,
TABLETS, LAPTOPS-- YOU CAN NOW
WATCH T.V. SHOWS WITHOUT A
TELEVISION SET OR A CABLE
CONNECTION.
BUT ESTABLISHED COMPANIES ARE
RELUCTANT TO GIVE UP THEIR HOLD
ON THE MEDIA INDUSTRY.
AMONG THEM: CABLE GIANT AND
OWNER OF NBC-- COMCAST.
IT'S THE LARGEST CABLE COMPANY
IN THE U.S., AND ONE OF THE
BIGGEST BROADBAND INTERNET AND
HOME PHONE SERVICE PROVIDERS.
IN 2011, IT ACQUIRED NBC
UNIVERSAL, MAKING IT A MAJOR
CONTENT PLAYER IN THE MARKET.
>> WE CAN'T WAIT TO SHOW YOU
WHAT'S NEXT.
>> Sreenivasan: BUT NEW
COMPANIES ARE STARTING TO
THREATEN MEDIA VETERANS LIKE
COMCAST, AND THEIR SERVICE
MODELS.
ONE OF THOSE IS AEREO, WHICH
ALLOWS CUSTOMERS TO STREAM LIVE
FREE T.V. TO PHONES AND
COMPUTERS FOR A MONTHLY
SUBSCRIPTION FEE, BUT WITHOUT
PAYING A CABLE BILL.
THE C.E.O. AND FOUNDER OF AEREO,
CHET KANOJIA, SAYS THAT THERE IS
A TRANSFORMATION UNDERWAY IN THE
MEDIA INDUSTRY.
>> THE GOAL OF AEREO WAS TO
CREATE AN ALTERNATIVE, TO CREATE
A PARALLEL SYSTEM ALMOST, IF YOU
WILL, BECAUSE THE CURRENT SYSTEM
IN WHICH YOU GET TELEVISION IS A
HIGHLY INTEGRATED, MONOPOLY-
BASED SORT OF SYSTEM.
>> Sreenivasan: BUT COMPANIES
LIKE COMCAST AND OTHER
BROADCASTERS HAVE TAKEN AEREO TO
COURT, SAYING IT'S STEALING
CONTENT.
SO FAR, AEREO HAS PREVAILED IN
TWO DECISIONS IN FEDERAL COURT.
THE BATTLE OVER AEREO IS NOT THE
ONLY CLASH OF LATE.
EARLIER THIS MONTH, TIME WARNER
AND CBS REACHED A DEAL OVER HOW
MUCH THAT CABLE COMPANY WOULD
PAY THE NETWORK FOR THE RIGHT TO
TRANSMIT CBS'S CONTENT.
DURING THE SUMMER, CBS WAS
TEMPORARILY BLACKED OUT FOR A
MONTH FOR TIME WARNER SYSTEMS IN
EIGHT MARKETS TOTALING THREE
MILLION VIEWERS.
>> Woodruff: WE RETURN TO IRAN.
A SHORT TIME AGO THE COUNTRY'S
PRESIDENT HASSAN ROUHANI SAT
DOWN FOR AN INTERVIEW WITH PBS'S
CHARLIE ROSE.
>> WHAT'S NECESSARY FOR YOU TV
BILATERAL MEETING WITH THE
PRESIDENT?
>> (translated): WELL, AFTER
ALL, WE'RE SPEAKING OF TWO
COUNTRIES WHO HAVE HAD NO
RELATIONS FOR 35 YEARS SO IT'S
CLEAR TO BEGIN TALKS REQUIRES
SOME PREPARATION WORK AND
WHEREVER THE PREP WORK IS
COMPLETED I BELIEVE THAT IT'S
POSSIBLE TO HAVE A MEETING.
WE MUST ALL ADMIT, I BELIEVE,
THAT THE PRINCIPLE OF THE
MEETING OF THE TWO SIDES IS
IMPORTANT BUT PERHAPS MORE
IMPORTANT THAN THAT IS THE
RESULT OF SUCH A MEETING.
SO WE MUST MAKE EVERY EFFORT SO
THAT FIRST OFFICIAL MEETING
BETWEEN TWO COUNTRIES WILL
DEFINITELY YIELD POSITIVE
RESULTS.
>> Woodruff: GWEN, YOU WERE
ALSO IN NEW YORK THIS MORNING,
PART OF A BREAKFAST THAT
PRESIDENT ROUHANI HAD.
TELL US, DID YOU GET A SENSE OF
WHETHER THE IRANIANS VIEWED WHAT
THEY WERE DOING WHEN THEY TURNED
DOWN PRESIDENT OBAMA'S REQUEST
AS A SNUB?
WHETHER THEY MEANT IT THAT WAY?
>> Ifill: IT'S IMPORTANT TO
REMEMBER THAT HASSAN ROUHANI IS
A SELF-DESCRIBED POLITICIAN AND
HE WAS BEING VERY SHREWD.
IT WAS CLEAR THE U.S. WAS MAKING
THE OVERTURE, IT WAS CLEAR TO
THEM THEY WERE NOT READY.
THAT'S WHAT THE U.S. SAID
YESTERDAY AND WHAT ROUHANI SUGED
TODAY THAT THEY NEED TIME IN
ORDER TO DECIDE WHAT'S THE
PROPER THING TO DO AND WHAT THEY
WANTED TO HAPPEN WAS THE MEETING
ON THURSDAY WITH KERRY FIRST
BEFORE THEY HAVE A CHANCE.
>> Woodruff: HOW SERIOUSLY ARE
THEY VIEWING THESE TALKS BETWEEN
THEIR FOREIGN MINISTER AND OUR
SECRETARY OF STATE?
>> I SENSED THEY'RE TAKING IT
VERY SERIOUSLY.
ROUHANI WAS VERY OPEN TO THIS
IDEA OF MEETING WITH THE
PRESIDENT.
HE SAID IT WASN'T ABOUT GO OR
PLAYING GAMES, HE ALSO REALLY
WANTS THESE CRIPPLING SANCTIONS
WHICH THE INTERNATIONAL
COMMUNITY HAS IMPOSED ON IRAN
TAKEN OFF.
THAT'S THE ONLY TIME HE GOT
EMOTIONAL DURING HIS TALK TODAY
AND THE ONLY WAY TO DO THAT IS
TO GET PEOPLE TO SIT DOWN AT THE
TABLE AND TALK.
>> Woodruff: WE WERE TALKING
EARLIER AND WE TALKED ABOUT
WHETHER THIS REALLY IS A CHARM
OFFENSIVE THAT THEY'RE TRYING TO
PUT TOGETHER.
IS THAT HOW IT CAME ACROSS WHEN
YOU WERE ACROSS THE TABLE WITH
HIM THIS MORNING?
>> Ifill: ABSOLUTELY.
NOT ONLY ACROSS THE TABLE, NOT
ONLY WAS HE SPEAKING TO LEADERS
THIS THE U.S. MEDIA, NOT ONLY
WAS HE TALKING TO CHARLIE ROSE
AT PBS AND CHRISTIANE AM PURE AT
CNN, HE'S -- ANNE CURRY LAST
WEEK AT NBC.
HE'S DOING HIS BEST TO GET IN
FRONT OF THE EYEBALLS OF THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE AND HE'S SAYING
I'M A DIFFERENT KIND OF IRANIAN
LEADER, NOT GUY WHO CAME HERE
LAST TIME AND DENIED THE
HOLOCAUST.
I'M SOMEONE WHO BELIEVE WHO BELT
WAY YOU BELIEVE AND WHO YOU CAN
DO BUSINESS WITH.
>> Woodruff: YET THEY MUST
KNOW THAT AMERICANS VIEW HIM AND
OTHER IRANIANS NOW THROUGH THE
LENS OF WHAT'S HAPPENED WITH
U.S.' IRANIAN RELATIONS OVER THE
LAST 30, 35 YEARS.
>> Ifill: ABSOLUTELY.
IF AMERICANS VIEW IRANIANS AT
ALL IT'S NOT IN A GOOD WAY.
HE'S AWARE OF THAT AND FEEL
THERE IS HAS TO BE SOME WAY TO
CLOSE THAT GAP.
WHAT THEY WANT TO DO TO CLOSE
THE GAP IS FIRST TO OPEN OUR
MINDS TO THE POSSIBILITIES OF A
CONVERSATION AND WHAT THEY HAVE
IN THAT IS AN AMERICAN PRESIDENT
AND AMERICAN ADMINISTRATION
WHICH IS SAYING WELL, LET'S SEE.
LET'S SEE.
THEY'RE SAYING LET'S SEE WHICH
IS SO MUCH FARTHER THAN THEY'VE
BEEN SO FAR.
>> Woodruff: WE KNOW HE DOES
SPEAK SOME ENGLISH.
HOW MUCH ENGLISH DID YOU HEAR
FROM HIM?
>> Ifill: I HEARD TWO WORDS OF
ENGLISH TODAY.
HE SPOKE ENTIRELY THROUGH AN
INTERPRETER.
HE'S MORE COMFORTABLE.
I WAS TALKING TO THE INTERPRETER
WHO SAID TO ME "HE'S JUST MUCH
MORE COMFORTABLE THAT WAY EVEN
THOUGH HE CAN EXPRESS HIMSELF IN
ENGLISH."
HE CAN ENGAGE BETTER SPEAKING IN
FARSI.
>> Woodruff:
>> Ifill: FINALLY TONIGHT,
REMEMBERING SOME OF THE VICTIMS
OF THE ATTACKS IN KENYA.
THE ASSAULT CLAIMED A NUMBER OF
PEOPLE KNOWN FAR AND WIDE AND
ALSO SOME OF THE COUNTRY'S
ELITE.
THEY INCLUDED KENYAN PRESIDENT
UHURU KENYATTA'S NEPHEW.
ALSO, A POPULAR RADIO AND
TELEVISION JOURNALIST IN KENYA,
A CLINTON FOUNDATION STAFFEWHOR
WAS EIGHT-AND-A-HALF MONTHS
PREGNANT AND HER FIANCEE, AN
ARCHITECT, WERE KILLED AS WELL.
AND THERE WAS REKNOWNED GHANIAN
POET, KOFI AWOONER, WHOSE BODY
WAS RETURNED HOME TODAY.
JEFFREY BROWN GETS A PERSONAL
RECOLLECTION.
>> Brown: KOFI AWOONER WAS A
POET AND NOVELIST, AUTHOR OF
NUMEROUS VOLUMES INFLUENCED BY
BOTH HIS NATIVE TRADITIONS AND
WESTERN LITERATURE.
A SCHOLAR-- TEACHING IN GHANA
AND THE U.S.-- AND A
POLITICALLY-ENGAGED STATESMAN,
SERVING AS HIS COUNTRY'S
AMBASSADOR TO THE U.N. AND
SERVING TIME IN PRISON FOR HIS
POLITICAL BELIEFS.
HE WAS IN NAIROBI TO ATTEND A
LITERARY FESTIVAL.
WITH HIM AND WITH US NOW, WAS
HIS NEPHEW AND FELLOW POET,
KWAME DAWES, PROFESSOR AT THE
UNIVERSITY OF NEBRASKA AND
EDITOR OF THE JOURNAL, "PRAIRIE
SCHOONER".
KWAME, WELCOME BACK TO OUR
PROGRAM, LET ME OFFER
CONDOLENCES FOR THE DEATH OF
YOUR UNCLE.
>> IT'S GOOD TO BE BACK, JEFF,
AND THANK YOU SO MUCH.
APPRECIATE IT.
>> Brown: TELL US WHO HE WAS
AND WHY HE WAS SUCH AN IMPORTANT
FIGURE IN GHANA AND THROUGHOUT
AFRICA?
>> KOFI BELONGED TO THAT
GENERATION OF AFRICAN POETS AND
AFRICAN WRITERS THAT EMERGED IN
THE LATE '50s AND EARLY '60s
WHO SAW A VISTA OF POSSIBILITY
IN INDEPENDENCE AND IN A NEW
VISION OF AFRICA, PAN AFRICANIST
VIEW OF AFRICA.
AND HIS FIRST BOOK OF POEMS CAME
OUT IN 1964.
HE WAS ABOUT 26 YEARS OLD AT THE
TIME.
HE WOULD CONTINUE TO WRITE
POETRY AND NOVELS AND HE HAD
THIS WONDERFUL SORT OF ROLE AS
THIS GREAT STATESMAN, A
FANTASTIC PROFESSOR AND TEACHER,
PEOPLE IN GHANA KNOW HIM AS PROF
AND BECAME AN INTERNATIONAL
FIGURE AS AN AMBASSADOR AND
DIPLOMAT.
SO THERE'S A GREAT LOSS IN GHANA
BECAUSE THIS WAS A MAJOR FIGURE.
>> Brown: WHAT DID HE WRITE
ABOUT?
HOW DID HE COMBINE HIS INTEREST
IN LITERATURE AND IN THE
POLITICS THAT YOU'RE TALKING
ABOUT?
>> HE HAD A -- YOU KNOW, HE CAME
OF A GENERATION -- AND THIS IS
THE GENERATION THAT CONNECTED
HIM WITH MY FATHER.
HE WAS A BEST FRIEND OF MY
FATHER FOR MANY YEARS AND HE
REGARDED MY FATHER, NEVIL DAWES,
AS A KIND OF MENTOR.
BUT I REMEMBER ONCE TALKING
ABOUT MY FATHER OF MEN WHO WERE
ARTISTS AND WRITERS BUT WHO FELT
THEMSELVES DEEPLY ENGAGED IN THE
POLITICAL REALITIES OF THE
WORLD.
THESE WERE LEFT WING
INDIVIDUALS, THEY CALL
THEMSELVES OLD CAMPAIGNERS.
THEY BELIEVE THAT LITERATURE
SHOULD SPEAK TO THE EXPERIENCE
OF PEOPLE.
SHOULD BE INVOLVED IN THE
PROCESS OF LIBERATION AND YET AT
THE SAME TIME THEY BELIEVED IN
THE HIGHEST QUALITY OF LITERARY
EXPRESSION THAT ENGAGED BOTH THE
AFRICAN TRADITIONS, THE VOICES
OF AFRICA, THE LANGUAGES OF
AFRICA AND WHAT ESSENTIALLY WAS
A MODERNIST SENSIBILITY AND I
DON'T THINK THERE'S ANY POET
THAT MANAGED TO DO THAT AS
EFFECTIVELY AS KOFI AWOONOR, HE
WOULD BE IN THE CATEGORY OF
DENNIS BREW US THE FROM SOUTH
AFRICA OR CHRISTOPHER AKIBO.
THIS IS THE CHARACTER OF WRITER
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT.
>> Brown: TELL US ABOUT THE
MAN YOU KNEW, YOUR OWN PERSONAL
RECOLLECTIONS.
>> I GREW UP WITH HIM AS UNCLE
KOFI.
HE WAS MY FATHER'S VERY GOOD
FRIEND AND HE WAS THE UNCLE THAT
WE LIKED TO COME TO THE HOUSE,
THIS TREMENDOUS LAUGHTER.
A GREAT DEAL OF ENERGY.
BUT WE ALSO KNEW THAT HE WAS
SERIOUSLY COMMITTED TO THE
STRUGGLE.
HE FACED TREMENDOUS OBSTACLES.
HE SPENT TIME IN JAIL FOR HIS
BELIEFS AND FOR HIS WORK HE
LIVED IN EXILE AND SPENT TIME
WITH US IN JAMAICA FOR THAT
WORK.
BUT WE ALSO GREW UP WITH HIM AS
A WAS ON THE MY MOTHER, SOMEBODY
HE LOVED DEARLY AND SO ON BUT A
GREAT, FUN BUT BRILLIANT MAN.
AND LATER ON IN LIFE HE BECAME
SOMEBODY WHO ENCOURAGED MY
WRITING AND ENCOURAGED ME AS AN
ARTIST IN WAYS THAT I CAN'T
EXPLAIN.
SO TO LOSE SHIM A GREAT -- IT'S
A TREMENDOUS LOSS.
BUT I HAD A CHANCE TO SEE HIM
WHILE I WAS IN NAIROBI TO ENJOY
OUR FELLOWSHIP WITH EACH OTHER
SO THAT WAS ONE GOOD THING.
>> Brown: IN FACT, YOU WERE
THERE AND HE WAS THERE FOR THE
LITERARY FESTIVAL AND I GATHER
HE'S BEEN -- REMAINED HARD AT
WORK.
YOU TOLD ME YOU WERE PUTTING
TOGETHER A NEW VOLUME OF HIS
SELECTED POEMS?
>> YEAH, THE AFRICAN POETRY BOOK
SERIES WHICH I STARTED WHICH WAS
COMMITTED TO PUBLICKING AFRICAN
WRITERS, AFRICAN POETS
PRIMARILY.
WE ASKED HIM IF YOU'D BE WILLING
TO BE OUR FIRST OF A SERIES OF
NEW AND SELECTED BOOKS BY MAJOR
AFRICAN POETS AND HE AGREED
RIGHT AWAY.
SO IN EARLY 2014 WE'LL BE
PUBLISHING A BOOK CALLED
"PROMISES OF HOPE, NEW AND
SELECTED WORKS" WHICH IS ED TED
WITH A SELECTION DONE BY ANOTHER
GREAT GHANAIAN POET AND THAT
BOOK WILL BE OUT.
IT WAS THE BOOK THAT TOOK US TO
NAIROBI TO BE AT THE STORY HAY
FESTIVAL TO CELEBRATE THE WORK
AND TO START TO GET INTERESTED
IN AFRICAN POETRY.
AND, YOU KNOW, THAT WAS THE
CELEBRATION.
BUT AT THE SAME TIME THE
INCREDIBLE TRAGEDY THAT TOOK
PLACE MAKES IT BITTERSWEET.
>> Brown: WE'RE GOING TO END
WITH YOU READING ONE OF HIS MORE
RECENT POEMS CALL "FEED FEED OUR
PEOPLE."
>> YES, IT'S A VERY NEW POEM.
>> Brown: ALL RIGHT, THE
POETRY AND LIFE OF KOFI AWOONOR
AS TOLD TO US BY KWAME DAWES.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU, JEFF.
>> Woodruff: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY:
THE SENATE VOTED UNANIMOUSLY TO
TAKE UP A STOPGAP BILL FUNDING
THE GOVERNMENT.
THAT CAME AFTER REPUBLICAN TED
CRUZ AND OTHERS SPENT NEARLY 22
HOURS URGING THAT THE BILL ALSO
DE-FUND OBAMACARE.
THE F.B.I. SAID INVESTIGATORS
BELIEVE WASHINGTON NAVY YARD
SHOOTER SUFFERED FROM DELUSIONS
THAT HIS MIND WAS BEING
CONTROLLED BY LOW-FREQUENCY
RADIO WAVES.
AND GOVERNMENT TROOPS IN KENYA
COMBED NAIROBI'S WESTGATE MALL,
AFTER A FOUR-DAY BATTLE WITH
FIGHTERS FROM A SOMALI MILITANT
GROUP.
THE FINAL DEATH TOLL REMAINED IN
DOUBT.
>> Ifill: ONLINE, WE LOOK AT THE
DECLINE OF OYSTERS IN THE
CHESAPEAKE BAY AND THE SLOW,
UPHILL BATTLE TO BRING THEM
BACK.
THAT'S OUR SCIENCE WEDNESDAY
REPORT.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR
WEBSITE newshour.pbs.org.
>> Woodruff: AND AGAIN, TO OUR
HONOR ROLL OF AMERICAN SERVICE
PERSONNEL KILLED IN THE
AFGHANISTAN CONFLICT.
WE ADD THEM AS THEIR DEATHS ARE
MADE OFFICIAL AND PHOTOGRAPHS
BECOME AVAILABLE.
HERE, IN SILENCE, ARE NINE MORE.
>> Ifill: AND THAT'S THE
"NEWSHOUR" FOR TONIGHT.
ON THURSDAY, WE'LL COVER THE
FACE TO FACE TALKS BETWEEN
SECRETARY OF STATE KERRY AND
IRANIAN FOREIGN MINISTER ZARIF.
I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
WE'LL SEE YOU ONLINE AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING.
ON BEHALF OF ALL OF US AT THE
"PBS NEWSHOUR," THANK YOU AND
GOOD NIGHT.